docs: add OpenTelemetry Host Dashboard documentation and configuratio… (#531)
Dynatrace/dynatrace-otel-collector: docs/dashboards/Host Dashboard.md

# OpenTelemetry Host Dashboard

> [!WARNING]
> The dashboards shared in this repository are in an alpha state and can change significantly.

> > They are provided as-is, with no support guarantees. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> They are provided as-is, with no support guarantees.
```

> Newer versions of these dashboards could look significantly different from earlier versions and add or remove certain metrics.

> This folder contains a dashboards that can be used to monitor visualize Hosts based of metrics ingested via the OpenTelemetry collectors using the `hostmetrics` recevier and `resourcedetection` processor. The dashboard is in JSON format and can be uploaded to your Dynatrace tenant by [following the steps in the Dynatrace documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/shortlink/dashboards-use#dashboards-upload).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This folder contains a dashboard that can be used to monitor hosts based on metrics ingested via OpenTelemetry collectors using the `hostmetrics` receiver and `resourcedetection` processor. The dashboard is in JSON format and can be uploaded to your Dynatrace tenant by [following the steps in the Dynatrace documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/shortlink/dashboards-use#dashboards-upload).
```

![A screenshot of the host dashboard providing an overview of used system resources](img/host-dashboard_1.png)

## Prerequisites

> Dynatrace accepts metrics data with Delta temporality via OTLP/HTTP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynatrace accepts metrics data with delta temporality via OTLP/HTTP.
```

> Collector and Collector Contrib versions 0.107.0 and above as well as Dynatrace collector versions 0.12.0 and above support exporting metrics data in that format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collector and Collector Contrib versions v0.107.0 and above as well as Dynatrace Collector versions v0.12.0 and above support exporting metrics data in that format.
```

Earlier versions ignore the `temporality_preference` flag and would, therefore, require additional processing (cumulative to delta conversion) before ingestion.

> It is possible to do this conversion in a collector, but it would make the setup more complicated, so it is initially omitted in this document.

Reviewer: Not sure if this sentence really brings any value. We could also remove it I think.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Collector Configuration

> Add the following receiver and processor configuration to your OpenTelemetry collector configuration file to enable the collection of host metrics with the required attributes, resource detection, and cumulative to delta conversion. Make sure to also add the receivers and processors to your collector pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following receiver and processor configuration to your OpenTelemetry Collector configuration file to enable the collection of host metrics with the required attributes, resource detection, and cumulative to delta conversion.
Make sure to also add the receivers and processors to your collector pipeline.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

receivers:
  hostmetrics:

>     collection_interval: 10s 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    collection_interval: 10s
```

    scrapers:
      paging:
        metrics:
          system.paging.utilization:
            enabled: true
      cpu:
        metrics:
          system.cpu.logical.count:
            enabled: true
          system.cpu.physical.count:
            enabled: true
          system.cpu.utilization:
            enabled: true
      disk:
      filesystem:
        metrics:
          system.filesystem.utilization:
            enabled: true
      load:
      memory:
        metrics:
          system.memory.limit:
            enabled: true
      network:
      processes:
      process:
        metrics:
          process.cpu.utilization:
            enabled: true
          process.memory.utilization:
            enabled: true
      system:

processors:
  cumulativetodelta:
  resourcedetection:
    detectors: ["system"]
    system:
      resource_attributes:
        host.arch:
          enabled: true
        host.ip:
          enabled: true

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [hostmetrics]
      processors: [resourcedetection, cumulativetodelta]
```

> ### Adding additional attributes to the allow list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding attributes to the allow list
```

Author: Why removing "additional"?

Reviewer: added attributes are by definition additional, so we don't need the double "add" I'd say

> The following attributes are not included in the default allow list of resource attributes in Dynatrace:s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following attributes are not included in the default allow list of resource attributes in Dynatrace:
```

- `host.arch`
- `host.ip`
- `host.name`
- `os.type`
- `process.command_line`
- `process.name`
- `mountpoint`
- `device`
- `state`

> Follow [this guide](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/shortlink/metrics-configuration#allow-list) and add the obove listed attributes (case-sensitive) to the allow list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow [this guide](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/shortlink/metrics-configuration#allow-list) and add the attributes above to the allow list.
Note, that the attribute are case-sensitive.
```

> This will ensure that this resource attribute is stored as a dimension on the metrics in Dynatrace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will ensure that these resource attributes are stored as dimensions on the metrics in Dynatrace.
```

# OpenTelemetry Host Dashboard

> [!WARNING]
> The dashboards shared in this repository are in an alpha state and can change significantly.
> They are provided as-is, with no support guarantees.
> Newer versions of these dashboards could look significantly different from earlier versions and add or remove certain metrics.

This folder contains a dashboard that can be used to monitor hosts based on metrics ingested via OpenTelemetry collectors using the `hostmetrics` receiver and `resourcedetection` processor. The dashboard is in JSON format and can be uploaded to your Dynatrace tenant by [following the steps in the Dynatrace documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/shortlink/dashboards-use#dashboards-upload).

![A screenshot of the host dashboard providing an overview of used system resources](img/host-dashboard_1.png)

## Prerequisites

Dynatrace accepts metrics data with delta temporality via OTLP/HTTP.
Collector and Collector Contrib versions v0.107.0 and above as well as Dynatrace Collector versions v0.12.0 and above support exporting metrics data in that format.

> Earlier versions ignore the `temporality_preference` flag and would, therefore, require additional processing (cumulative to delta conversion) before ingestion.

Reviewer 2: i think we can actually remove this part, as the config below does not make use of the `temporality_preference` option
